Once you have escaped to safety, it doesn't end there.
The aftermath is just as important and yet difficult to face.
That's why we need our next ABC Step E for events and evaluate because it's incredibly important to
address what happened after the assault is over.
This is a step most of their self-defense classes don't cover, but it can make a huge difference in
both how you recover from what happened and how you can help improve the situation for other women after
you've escaped the threat, especially if you had to fight to do so.
This is when an emotional aftershock can hit.
If this happens to you, it's OK.
It happens to many of us, so many more than we realize.
In fact, ninety four percent of rape victims experience symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder,
or PTSD, within two weeks after the assault.
Seventy percent of rape and sexual assault survivors experience at least moderate to severe distress,
which is a larger percentage than for any other violent crime and for 30 percent of those women.
Those symptoms continue for nine months.
So if this happens to you?
Keep breathing, stay grounded and remember you are not alone.
You are a survivor, not a victim.
I know it may not feel like it in the moment, but you are.
You are strong.
You are powerful, like a cross between a dinosaur and a tank, but not a tank that's used for war.
A peaceful, loving dynamo tengku so strong she doesn't need to do anything but be herself and run away
really, really quickly.
So maybe something faster than a tank.
Breathing is especially important as important afterward as before and during deep breaths will help
you stay calm and in control as you figure out what to do next and who to seek out and what to say and
how to slowly bring yourself back to a feeling of security and safety.
And then talking about it with other people can make a huge difference in how you recover from what
happened and how you can make sure it doesn't happen again to anyone.
So as soon as possible afterwards that you feel able find the courage to seek help and speak up both
for your own sake and for the sake of your silence next target.
Find a member of law enforcement and report what happened.
Give all the evidence you can, especially if there was sexual contact.
I know it's hard and you may not feel like you want to in the moment after it all happens.
But one day you may feel differently and will want to have done all you could in that moment when you
had a chance and the choice so that ultimately you can hold him responsible and get some justice.
Don't let your attacker get away with it.
Only 23 percent of sexual assaults are reported and less than one percent are actually convicted or
jailed.
That needs to change.
Reporting what happened to the authorities can help bring those numbers back up where they belong.
We got to catch them all.
Like Pokemon, how would you describe what happened to you?
Is also important.
Remember, you need to be able to articulate why your assailant felt like a real and imminent threat
to you and how you knew that.
Sadly, I had a feeling won't cut it in court.
You need to practice analyzing and explaining what caused your feelings.
Give details and specifics about how he demonstrated his intent, his means and his opportunity, and
how you evaluated your preclusion and had no other option than to fight back.
If you're unsure what to say, you can consult an attorney or call a national hotline for support,
RAINN, the Rape, Abuse and -- National Network offers a free national sexual assault hotline 24
seven by phone at one 800 six five six Hope or online at online dot Reynaud.
Even if you managed to run away before the threat becomes physical, it's still good to report what
happened and give all the details you can.
Just because you got away doesn't mean the next woman will.
So do what you can to make sure it does not happen again.
Now, telling the authorities is one excellent way to evince and communicate about what happened.
But there are other ways that can help you as well, like finding someone to continue talking to about
it or several people.
The more the better.
This could be your therapist or other women who've been through it too, or anyone in your life whom
you trust to believe you and support you or all of the above.
This is the evaluate part of this ABC step to help you process what happened, what it means and how
you can heal.
It's equally important to address what happened for yourself and give yourself the space and the support
to heal long afterward.
Going through any trauma like sexual assault or abuse is never easy.
You have every right to feel the way you feel afterward and every right to be believed.
Most of all, you are not to blame for what happened.
Don't let anyone tell you otherwise.
As Eleanor Roosevelt so memorably said, nobody can make you feel inferior without your consent.
You are worthy of this, of feeling safe, of being safe.
So give yourself permission to accept that.
And --, don't let anyone make you feel guilty about it, including yourself.
Guilt is not invited to your happy, safe party.
Don't even tell them where it is if he tries to invite himself along, just say no, I think you're
thinking of something else and then run away really quickly, just like you'd run away from a dangerous
assailant.
Because who cares what guilt thinks?
You know you were strong.
You know you were bad, MS.
And your bad assets can never be diminished by anyone else's words or stupid hats.
People can say what they want to say.
You just keep on knowing what you know without thinking about what they're thinking about, what you
know, that's what I think.
You also shouldn't have to do it alone.
That's why I'm doing this self-defense course and why I built tough cookie in general, because I get
it and I'm not the only one.
There are many others like us who understand and relate and want to help each other through it.
So don't be afraid to join the conversation and share your story too.
It can help you recover from what's already happened and rebuild your trust in humanity for the future.
We can get through it if we do it together.
On that note, let's move on to the next video and practiced some ways you can actually do this with
those around you.